### kickstarting with Excel
## Overview of the project 
The aim of the project was to help an upcoming playewriter Louise, crowd fund her play Fever. her estimated budget was $10000. Using the Kickstarte Data we had, the aim was to check how other crowd fund campaigns fared in relation to their goals and time (launch date). 
## Purpose
The purpose of the project was to analyze the dataset, visualize how other campaigns fared by analyzing outcomes based on launch dates and goals set, which would then help Louise better understand her approach towards her campaign.  
## Analysis and Challenges
The approach was fairly simple - First analyze the outcomes of other campaigns based on their launch date, then to visualize outcomes based on their goals. This would give Louise an understanding what period is best to launch her play and with what budget estimate. 
The challenges with the data set was that it was an extensive data which was raw, unflitered or uncleaned. To start with the data set had to be cleaned, some of them had no values, which would hinder the use of formulae in excel. The timestamps were in Unix too, hence had to be converted. Data had to be filtered and made sure that only the data required for the outcome of the play was used. 
## Analysis of outcomes based on launch date
For the analysis, it was important to change the Unix timestamps on the Luanch dates of the data set. Hence a date conversion formula was applied to it, and then since we also wanted to analyse the data w.r.t the year, the year fomula was applied to the date conversion column. A pivot table was created using the count of outcomes as the value corrsponding to the laucn date (converted), this was also filtered using years and the parent category which was filtered to Theatre on the pivot table. A pivot chart was then created using this data, which gave us a visual analysis of how plays fared in relation to their launch dates.  Based on the analysis, where we compared on which months the plays fared better (had more successes), it was noticed that the month of May had the most susccesful campaign outcomes. The month of June came second, relatively closed to May. This would mean that the month of May would be the best time for Louise to launch the campaign. Having said that the month of May also had the highest number of failures, along with the months of June, July and October. Louise needs otbe vary about this and could surely avoid the month of October and July to launch.
## Analysis of Outcomes based on Goals
For this analysis, a seperate excel sheet was created to see how the plays did based on parameters. The parameters were the goal amounts set in equal ascencions of $5000, starting with any value lesser than 1000 and ending with any goals reached which were greater than $50000. Then the Countifs formula was applied to see how many count of plays corresponded to being succesful, failed or canceled. From these, a perecentage for each of the category was found out. Based on this analysis, it was seen that all campaigns with a goal of less than $1000 fared succesfully, followed closely by the ones between $1000 to $4999. The danger goal amounts seem to be the ones between 25000 to 29999,30000 to 34999 and the only 1 campaign in the 45000 to 49999 range failed too.
## Challenges and difficulties encountered
With such a large data set, the challenge was to ensure that the right data is used to calculate and derive the analysis required. Understanding which data had to be worked on and the direction to take was another key aspect. The launch date analysis was simple, the formula was a no-brainer. The challenge or difficulty was when analyzinf the outcomes based on goals, where each formula for the corresponding goal parameter set had to be typed accurately. I faced difficulty in the line graph outcome as it did not match with what it was supposed to look like. I played around and restarted the sheet multiple times if there was an error with the formuale or the data set. 
## Results
For outcomes based on launch dates, it is clear that May is the best time to launch the play. October relatively seems to be the month with higher rates of failures relative to the total number of plays. 
For outcomes based on goals, the ideal goal target could be $5000 as a lot of succesful plays had this goal. Since Louise planned her goals to be $10000, we could advice her that the target had lesser percentage of success compared to any goal lesser than $5000
There however, are some limitiations to this data set. There are a couple of outliers that need to be considered. Maybe we could create some more tables and charts to better understand. A percentage average of the outcomes by launch dates may give us more information based on the overall campaign outcomes. For the outcomes by goals, a column graph helps in comparing the campaign outcomes closesly. 
